README.md, before:

# Estranged.Lfs ![Build status](https://github.com/alanedwardes/Estranged.Lfs/workflows/.NET%20Core/badge.svg)
A Git LFS backend which provides pluggable authentication and blob store adapters. It is designed to run in a serverless environment to be used in conjunction with a Git provider such as GitHub or BitBucket, or self hosted Git.

## Basic Usage
1. Add the Git LFS services to your application:
```csharp
services.AddLfs();
```
2. Register an implementation for IBlobAdapter and IAuthenticator. S3 is provided out of the box:
```csharp
var s3BlobConfig = new S3BlobAdapterConfig
{
    Bucket = "estranged-lfs-test"
};
services.AddLfsS3Adapter(s3BlobConfig, new AmazonS3Client());
services.AddLfsDictionaryAuthenticator(new Dictionary<string, string>{{"username","password"}});
```
### GitHub Authenticator
A GitHub authenticator implementation is provided out of the box. This authenticator takes the supplied username and password and makes a "get repository" call against the GitHub API. If the result is that the user has access, the LFS call succeeds, if the user does not have access, the LFS call fails with a 401 error.

To configure the GitHub authenticator, you need to register it with the `IServiceProvider`:

```csharp
// services.AddLfsDictionaryAuthenticator(new Dictionary<string, string>{{"username","password"}});
var ghAuthConfig = new GitHubAuthenticatorConfig
{
    Organisation = "alanedwardes",
    Repository = "Estranged.Lfs"
};
services.AddLfsGitHubAuthenticator(ghAuthConfig);
```

When LFS prompts you for credentials, enter your GitHub username, and a [personal access token](https://github.com/settings/tokens) to authenticate. Your token should have the "repository read" scope.

### BitBucket Authenticator
A BitBucket authenticator implementation is provided out of the box. This authenticator takes the supplied username and password and makes a "get repository" call against the BitBucket API. If the result is that the user has access, the LFS call succeeds, if the user does not have access, the LFS call fails with a 401 error.

To configure the BitBucket authenticator, you need to register it with the `IServiceProvider`:

```csharp
// services.AddLfsDictionaryAuthenticator(new Dictionary<string, string>{{"username","password"}});
var bbAuthConfig = new BitBucketAuthenticatorConfig
{
    Workspace = "alanedwardes",
    Repository = "Estranged.Lfs"
};
services.AddLfsBitBucketAuthenticator(bbAuthConfig);
```

When LFS prompts you for credentials, enter your BitBucket username, and a [personal access token](https://bitbucket.org/account/settings/app-passwords/) to authenticate. Your token should have the "repository read" scope.

## Extensibility

### Blob Adapter
Any blob store which generates pre-signed URLs can be used by implementing the interface IBlobAdapter:

```csharp
public interface IBlobAdapter
{
    Task<SignedBlob> UriForUpload(string oid, long size, CancellationToken token);
    Task<SignedBlob> UriForDownload(string oid, CancellationToken token);
}
```
An S3 implementation is included, which generates pre-signed GET and PUT requests. This can be used out of the box if desired.

### Authentication Adapter
Git LFS supports HTTP Basic authentication, the mechanics of which the library deals with but the authentication portion is exposed behind the IAuthenticator interface.

```csharp
public interface IAuthenticator
{
    Task Authenticate(string username, string password, LfsPermission requiredPermission, CancellationToken token);
}
```
A sample implementation exposing a dictionary of username => password is included as a reference.

## Example Deployables
There are currently two hosting examples:
* `Estranged.Lfs.Hosting.AspNet`
* `Estranged.Lfs.Hosting.Lambda`

The former is a simple example using only Asp.NET components, and the latter is an Asp.NET Lambda function which can be deployed directly to AWS Lambda, behind API Gateway.

#### Deploying to Lambda

1. Head over to the `Estranged.Lfs.Hosting.Lambda` project in the `hosting` folder.
2. Install the `dotnet-lambda` global tool from AWS: https://github.com/aws/aws-extensions-for-dotnet-cli
3. Edit the `aws-lambda-tools-defaults.json` file to suit your environment setup:
```javascript
{
    "profile": "default",
    "configuration": "Release",
    "framework": "netcoreapp3.1",
    "function-handler": "Estranged.Lfs.Hosting.Lambda::Estranged.Lfs.Hosting.Lambda.LambdaEntryPoint::FunctionHandlerAsync",
    "function-memory-size": 256,
    "function-timeout": 30,
    "function-runtime": "dotnetcore3.1",
    "region": "<aws region>",
    "s3-bucket": "<s3 bucket to upload the lambda to>",
    "s3-prefix": "<path in s3 to upload the lambda to>",
    "function-name": "<lambda name to deploy or update>",
    // Set other variables required by the Lambda function
    "environment-variables": "LFS_BUCKET=<lfs s3 bucket>;<key>=<value>"
}
```
4. Run `dotnet-lambda deploy-serverless` to deploy the Lambda function

Commit message:

Working with OVH
Project updated to VS 2019
S3 Adapter for OVH
Dotnet version working
Updated readme

README.md, after:

# Estranged.Lfs ![Build status](https://github.com/alanedwardes/Estranged.Lfs/workflows/.NET%20Core/badge.svg)
A Git LFS backend which provides pluggable authentication and blob store adapters. It is designed to run in a serverless environment to be used in conjunction with a Git provider such as GitHub or BitBucket, or self hosted Git.

## Basic Usage
1. Add the Git LFS services to your application:
```csharp
services.AddLfs();
```
2. Register an implementation for IBlobAdapter and IAuthenticator. S3 is provided out of the box:
```csharp
var s3BlobConfig = new S3BlobAdapterConfig
{
    Bucket = "estranged-lfs-test"
};
services.AddLfsS3Adapter(s3BlobConfig, new AmazonS3Client());
services.AddLfsDictionaryAuthenticator(new Dictionary<string, string>{{"username","password"}});
```
### GitHub Authenticator
A GitHub authenticator implementation is provided out of the box. This authenticator takes the supplied username and password and makes a "get repository" call against the GitHub API. If the result is that the user has access, the LFS call succeeds, if the user does not have access, the LFS call fails with a 401 error.

To configure the GitHub authenticator, you need to register it with the `IServiceProvider`:

```csharp
// services.AddLfsDictionaryAuthenticator(new Dictionary<string, string>{{"username","password"}});
var ghAuthConfig = new GitHubAuthenticatorConfig
{
    Organisation = "alanedwardes",
    Repository = "Estranged.Lfs"
};
services.AddLfsGitHubAuthenticator(ghAuthConfig);
```

When LFS prompts you for credentials, enter your GitHub username, and a [personal access token](https://github.com/settings/tokens) to authenticate. Your token should have the "repository read" scope.

### BitBucket Authenticator
A BitBucket authenticator implementation is provided out of the box. This authenticator takes the supplied username and password and makes a "get repository" call against the BitBucket API. If the result is that the user has access, the LFS call succeeds, if the user does not have access, the LFS call fails with a 401 error.

To configure the BitBucket authenticator, you need to register it with the `IServiceProvider`:

```csharp
// services.AddLfsDictionaryAuthenticator(new Dictionary<string, string>{{"username","password"}});
var bbAuthConfig = new BitBucketAuthenticatorConfig
{
    Workspace = "alanedwardes",
    Repository = "Estranged.Lfs"
};
services.AddLfsBitBucketAuthenticator(bbAuthConfig);
```

When LFS prompts you for credentials, enter your BitBucket username, and a [personal access token](https://bitbucket.org/account/settings/app-passwords/) to authenticate. Your token should have the "repository read" scope.

## Extensibility

### Blob Adapter
Any blob store which generates pre-signed URLs can be used by implementing the interface IBlobAdapter:

```csharp
public interface IBlobAdapter
{
    Task<SignedBlob> UriForUpload(string oid, long size, CancellationToken token);
    Task<SignedBlob> UriForDownload(string oid, CancellationToken token);
}
```
An S3 implementation is included, which generates pre-signed GET and PUT requests. This can be used out of the box if desired.

### Authentication Adapter
Git LFS supports HTTP Basic authentication, the mechanics of which the library deals with but the authentication portion is exposed behind the IAuthenticator interface.

```csharp
public interface IAuthenticator
{
    Task Authenticate(string username, string password, LfsPermission requiredPermission, CancellationToken token);
}
```
A sample implementation exposing a dictionary of username => password is included as a reference.

## Example Deployables
There are currently two hosting examples:
* `Estranged.Lfs.Hosting.AspNet`
* `Estranged.Lfs.Hosting.Lambda`

The former is a simple example using only Asp.NET components, and the latter is an Asp.NET Lambda function which can be deployed directly to AWS Lambda, behind API Gateway.

### Asp.NET version

1. Edit this line to suit to your environment (using _aws_access_key_id_ and _aws_secret_access_key_ of the .aws/credential file)
`services.AddLfsS3Adapter(new S3BlobAdapterConfig{Bucket = "objectContainerName"}, new AmazonS3Client("MyAccesKeyAWS", "MyAccesSecretAWS", new AmazonS3Config { ServiceURL = "https://s3.MyPublicRegionLowerCase.cloud.ovh.net" }));`
           

2. It can be launched in VS by choosing _Estranged.Lfs.Hosting.AspNet_ (not the default _IIS Express_ option that doesnt work).

 ![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/2952456/89800274-d82c9380-db2e-11ea-85bb-3fc8652e3e9d.png)
3. Or it can be published in folder, then launched with _Estranged.Lfs.Hosting.AspNet.exe_
4. This is a console application that is listening for HTTP LFS requests on https://localhost:5001

![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/2952456/89800695-6739ab80-db2f-11ea-8641-0eab8c501381.png)

5. Change the .lfconfig to send request to the console app
```
[lfs]
url = https://localhost:5001/
```
6. From git repo Commit lfs file and Push, and enter when asked the user and password set by this line 
`  services.AddSingleton<IAuthenticator>(x => new DictionaryAuthenticator(new Dictionary<string, string> { { "userAskedBySourceTree", "passwordAskedBySourceTree" } }));`

7. The pushed file is now present in OVH Object Storage
![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/2952456/89806464-5e4cd800-db37-11ea-85bd-9ce724e7ee0e.png)

#### Deploying to Lambda

1. Head over to the `Estranged.Lfs.Hosting.Lambda` project in the `hosting` folder.
2. Install the `dotnet-lambda` global tool from AWS: https://github.com/aws/aws-extensions-for-dotnet-cli
3. Edit the `aws-lambda-tools-defaults.json` file to suit your environment setup:
```javascript
{
    "profile": "default",
    "configuration": "Release",
    "framework": "netcoreapp3.1",
    "function-handler": "Estranged.Lfs.Hosting.Lambda::Estranged.Lfs.Hosting.Lambda.LambdaEntryPoint::FunctionHandlerAsync",
    "function-memory-size": 256,
    "function-timeout": 30,
    "function-runtime": "dotnetcore3.1",
    "region": "<aws region>",
    "s3-bucket": "<s3 bucket to upload the lambda to>",
    "s3-prefix": "<path in s3 to upload the lambda to>",
    "function-name": "<lambda name to deploy or update>",
    // Set other variables required by the Lambda function
    "environment-variables": "LFS_BUCKET=<lfs s3 bucket>;<key>=<value>"
}
```
4. Run `dotnet-lambda deploy-serverless` to deploy the Lambda function
